# Bachelor-Project

Computational social science uses quantitative data to explain social phenomena. Through the use of data science tools such as machine learning models, one can study complex social relationships and cultural tendencies in society using vast amounts of data. Scientists in this field are often in the dilemma of having to choose between sparse but broadly spanning quantitative data or more precise and rich qualitative data obtained from methods such as surveys. Through the use of two machine learning models, this paper seeks to predict the level of connected- ness between any two countries using cultural similarities extracted from Facebook. We demonstrate that a random forest model yields better results than a linear re- gression model and that out of four distinct distance measures, the cosine distance measure is the most suitable for predicting cross-border connectedness. It has been shown that the method of using exploratory analysis combined with social media data using a bottom-up approach can over time give a more complete view of the social connections. This paper expands on the feasibility of using this bottom-up technique to study which cultural similarities impact social connectedness across the globe. Our findings highlight the potential that social media data holds in pro- viding a unique window into human behavior, interests, and interactions, and offer new insights into the formation of social connections in an increasingly intercon- nected world.


## Keywords:
Explainable AI, Computational Social Science, Social Media Data, Bottom-up Approach, Facebook, Social Connectedness, Cultural Distances, Machine Learning
